INFO-233 Group Project – Phase I – Project Definition Project Name: Team Name: Group 3

Define the problem you are trying to solve.
We are trying to solve the 12th united nation's goal of Responsible Consumption and Production to reduce the over 120 billion pounds of food wasted on average annually in the United States. Another problem we are solving is healthy eating as many individuals struggle with coming up with ideas of healthy recipes they can make with the ingredients currently in their fridge/ pantry. 

How does your program help to solve the problem?
Our program will aid in solving the problems of food waste and healthy eating by creating a program that will allow the user to enter all the ingredients they have and the program will return recipe ideas that the user can make which will include all cooking instructions as well as the nutritional values of the recipe. 

Who will be the users of this program. Detail at least two Use Cases a. Use Case 1 b. Use Case 2
The intended users of this program are individuals that are trying to meet specific dietary goals such as weight loss. The other intended user is individuals who struggle with coming up with new recipes and or do not want to go grocery shopping to get specific ingredients for a recipe. 

What technology is available to solve the problem? Identify the specific APIs and Modules to be used for the program.
We will be using the API Edamam Food and Grocery Database which is an api that allows the user to upload a recipe and in turn they will receive all the nutritional information pertaining to it such as the fat, carbohydrate, vitamin content etc.  We will also be using   

Detail the sequence of the program- What is the flow of the program? How does a user use the program?  Our flow of the program will include a user input, API calls, and finally the achieved output. The User Input will have the user enter a list of recipes with the available ingredients using tuples in the program. Once the ingredients are entered, the program will use the requests and json modules to call the API (Edamam Food and Grocery Database), which will then return a list of possible recipes using the provided ingredients. The API will also provide the user with nutritional details for the recipes. The Output will display the results in an easy-to-read format for the user.

a. Break up the work in parts to allow the developers to work on the coding in the next phase. Have at least as many parts as there are team members: Some examples can be: User Input, Communications – APIs, Modules, Function Declaration, Research, Exception Handling
User input- A team member will design and create a module that can allow the user to input available ingredients in a tuple format. 
CommunicationsAPIs/Modules-  One team member will make a function to handle the communication aspect with the recipe API. Also make sure when calling an API we use a request module with JSON responses.
Function declaration- One team member will define the functions used in the program. Efficiently reuse functions for tasks like getting recipes or any nutritional information, and formatting outputs.
Research- A team member will research any extra APIs that could enhance our program. 
Exception handling- A team member will be in charge of making sure that the program is user friendly and make sure to clean up any API errors or errors in user inputs. Also, make sure that the correct error message pops up if a user types in an unknown recipe or incorrect name for the recipe.

API links:
 https://rapidapi.com/edamam/api/edamam-food-and-grocery-database 
 https://rapidapi.com/spoonacular/api/recipe-food-nutrition
